## Week Two - Module 2 Recap

Fork or re-pull this respository. Answer the questions to the best of your ability. Try to answer them with limited amount of external research. These questions cover the majority of what we've learned this week (which is a TON - YOU are a web developer!!!).

Note: When you're done, submit a PR.


### Week 2 Questions

1. At a high level, what is ActiveRecord? What does it do/allow you to do?
* ActiveRecord is an object relational mapping.  It takes rows from a database and essentially allows you to interact with them as though they were a normal ruby object.

2. Assume you have the following model:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
end
```

What are some methods you can call on `Team`? If these methods aren't defined in the class, how do you have access to them?
* find, find_by, find_by_..., sum, maximum, minimum, order_by, sort_by, group_by
* You have access to them because your model directly inherits from ActiveRecord, so you have access to all the parent methods.

3. Assume that in your database, a team has the following attributes: "id", "name", owner_id". How would you find the name of a team with an id of 4? Assuming your class only included the code from question 2, how could you find the owner of the same team?
* Call the method: Team.find(4).name
* owner_id = Team.find(4).owner_id
    Owner.find(owner_id).name



4. Assume that you added a line to your `Team` class as follows:

```ruby
class Team << ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :owner
end
```

Now how would you find the owner of the team with an id of 4?
* team = Team.find(4)
    team.owners.name

5. In a database that's holding students and teachers, what will be the relationship between students and teachers? Draw the schema diagram.
* The teacher will have many students, through the join table StudentTeachers
And a student will have many teachers., through the join table StudentTeachers

* Because this relationship is many to many - you would want to create a join table between the two tables.


6. Define foreign key, primary key, and schema.

* A schema is basically the blueprint to your databeses.  You create/alter/change it through a migration.  A primary key is the key allocated as a unique identification for each row item in the database and is generated by the database (usually).  A foreign key is a link to another table in the database, the foreign key in one table corresponds to the primary key in another. If a student has one teacher, the table for students would have a column for teacher_id, which would correspond to the teacher's id.

7. Describe the relationship between a foreign key on one table and a primary key on another table.

* A foreign key is a link to another table in the database, the foreign key in one table corresponds to the primary key in another. If a student has one teacher, the table for students would have a column for teacher_id, which would correspond to the teacher's id.

8. What are the parts of an HTTP response?
* The status code, the header (including a line break after), and the body


### Optional Questions

1. Name your five favorite ActiveRecord methods (i.e. methods your models inherit from ActiveRecord) and describe what they do.
* Sum - adds all the values in a specific column
* Maximum - finds the highest value in that column
* Minimum - finds the lowest value in that column
* Find_by_... - Uses regex to compare what you insert into the method and then find whatever in the table by that attribute.
* Where - Finds rows where whatever your arguement is, is true.

2. Name your three favorite ActiveRecord rake tasks and describe what they do.
* The only ones I've used so far have to do with the databases.
* I tend to use rails db:test:prepare, rails db:setup, and rails db:reset a lot.

3. What two columns does `t.timestamps null: false` create in our database?
* It creates the created_at and updated_at columns

4. In a database that's holding schools and teachers, what will be the relationship between schools and teachers?
* A teacher will belong to a school.
* And a school has many teachers.

5. In the same database, what will you need to do to create this relationship (draw a schema diagram)?
class Teacher < AR
  belongs_to :school
end
class School < AR
  has_many :teachers
end

In the schema itself you would have to add a school_id to the teacher
create_table 'teacher'
  name: string
  proficiency: string
  ...
  ...
  school_id: bigint
end
6. Give an example of when you might want to store information besides ids on a join table.
* I don't think you would except maybe to index the positions. Otherwise you're breaking SRP and database normalization.

7. Describe and diagram the relationship between patients and doctors.
* Because doctors can have specialties, I would expect the relationship to be many to many.

8. Describe and diagram the relationship between museums and original_paintings.
* I would think a painting belongs_to a museum, and a museum has_many painting. This is, of course, barring extraordinary circumstances where exhibits travel.

9. What could you see in your code that would make you think you might want to create a partial?
* Repetition.

### Self Assessment:
Choose One:
* I was able to answer most questions independently, but utilized outside resources for a few - http response


Choose One:
* I feel confident about the content presented this week
